Job application questions and answers
# Explain below or in your cover letter the most important strengths you would bring to this position, for example specific professional experience relevant to this position, technical abilities, etc. (Banyu Carbon)
There is not just one strength that is required for this job, only what is required to complete the job. My most important strength for this job is my breadth of experience, having solved problems in a variety of industries as well as academia.
My thesis project started with support for existing work being done in the lab, developing numerical models representing our nanomaterial experiments. Much of my work required finding new problems and developing methods to resolve them that were unique to our needs. For example, I developed a method for cleaning the FEA mesh to allow the simulations run properly. Eventually my work moved beyond a support role, and into my thesis work of answering fundamental questions about nanomaterial behavior which cannot be answered with experiments.
My work at Boeing provided a vastly different experience in that solutions to many problems are available, but the challenge is to find them. I assigned to a project of fixing production problems on the new 767 tanker, and one task involved a clevis joint designed and installed with incorrect fasteners. I was not familiar with the design, so I first reviewed all the previous designs to discover the intent of the original design, which I then confirmed with an expert. I updated the drawings for future work, but several aircraft had an incorrect installation which needed to be corrected. I worked with the responsible engineer to ensure the rework was done while avoiding blame.

# Share below or in your cover letter a relevant example where you used problem solving to overcome an engineering challenge. Particularly helpful would be examples where you conceptualized, tested, and deployed a new engineering solution. (Banyu Carbon)
During my time at Safran, I helped diagnose waste valve failures. One such failure involved a leak on an aircraft not yet delivered. I set about solving the problem first by looking at all the drawings to look for tolerance stackups which could allow a leak. I obtained an unused valve for testing, and I tested various operational conditions to determine how a leak might occur. I found that the valve had not been designed to keep residual fluid inside the valve from leaking out due to high altitude conditions. Based on this finding, I worked with the supplier of the valve seals to produce a stronger seal that could prevent this sort of leak. I designed a test setup to confirm the improved function of the new seal, and ran pressure tests on the new valve to demonstrate that the leak had been fixed.

# Explain below or in your cover letter why you are interested in this position. For example, you could explain how this position fits with your professional goals. (Banyu Carbon)
The ideal position I am seeking is one involved with preventing or mitigating climate change, and working at Banyu Carbon perfectly suits this goal. I appreciate the challenge of working at a small company where I can be involved in a clean slate design all the way through prototyping and production, because it encourages problem solving at each stage, and allows me to continually learn new skills. I also feel that this sort of company environment would allow me to participate at a deeper level with both design decisions and business decisions (such as supply chain development). I look forward to the opportunity to work on a project which can give purpose to my work.
